>> Erik: Let's talk about
use cases of monoliths,
the first use case of monoliths is
really small-scale applications, right?
Given its simplicity, a monolithic
architecture is often suitable for
small-scale applications or startups
where the application scope is clear and
unlikely to drastically change or scale.
I have a friend who is a founder
who works on a lot of projects, and
I think he's probably one of the few
people I've ever met that have mastered
creating monoliths and
turning them into sellable products.
He can build fast, he can get his project
across, and then he can immediately get
buy-in for it and that's his goal on a lot
of the projects that he works on, right?
Monoliths are a great,
great solution for that, right?
If you go out the gate too fast
with too much complexity, right?
You're gonna find yourself managing
services way more than you're gonna
find yourself actually making profit.
And so especially early on,
this is really where that whole term of
like start out with a monolith
really comes into play.
Because more likely than not,
you don't need to have distributed crazy
systems as the first thing you do,
maybe it might be helpful, right?
But seriously, if you can just
build a monolith and get started,
that's normally going to help
you a lot more, and again, yeah.
>> Speaker 1: You mentioned earlier about
flexibility, accommodating changes,
new feature requests,
sort of I have this new startup.
I don't intend for it to not scale,
are there any strategies that
you've seen where I'm
starting with a Monolith?
But I've sort of,
encapsulated some of those boundaries
such that I can turn it into
distributed if needed and
what might be some approaches to that?
>> Erik: Yeah, so
we are gonna talk about that a little bit
later in the evolution of an architecture.
But, yeah, a good way of doing
that is really trying to
do the modular approach, but
on a logical level, right?
Think about the shared logic
between your controllers, right?
Think about the things that they need
to use outside of those controllers.
And a good kind of approach I like to
take is I like to design even the logic
in a way where if I ever have to go like,
okay, I want a service for this,
I should be able to just
separate that code.
It should almost be copy and
paste to where I can copy out those files,
wrap them in a new listener, and
then bam, that's a new service, right?
If you have a lot of complexity around
the logic of those shared components,
then that becomes harder to decouple.
But you could very easily set
up data structures in the way so
that it's, again, just user data,
just product data, just check out data.
And then when you get to a point where
you're, okay, I want three services,
all the user data goes over here,
all the checkout stuff goes over here,
all the processing data goes over here.
And then they can exist as three different
services that you scale individually.
But it really comes down to you as
a programmer thinking about how coupled
your logic is to the other parts of
your software that you're building.
And if you feel like that's going
to happen like nesting functions,
for example, right?
Like, if you've got a bunch of different
things happening in the same route,
maybe that should be two routes, right?
Maybe that should be three route, right?
For example a sign-in flow, maybe
a sign-in flow only needs to take care of
this one thing and then you can
off-board other things to other routes.
Don't do too much in one space,
basically is what I'm trying to say.
If you do too much in one specific space,
it becomes harder to decouple
those things and move them around.
Does that answer your question?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Erik: Cool, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Are there higher potential
security risks with monoliths since
everything's all just kinda right there?
>> Erik: Right.
>> Speaker 2: You have to take extra
measures to make sure things are protected
and-
>> Erik: Yeah, absolutely, I mean,
if you If you think about it,
the monolith is your golden goose.
It's the one thing that's bringing
all traffic to your system,
it's what you're managing everything with.
And so, yeah, I mean,
it could be very possible that you
could have an endpoint that is exposed,
but doesn't even directly relate
to what the vulnerability is.
Just because it shares logic
with the user data, or
just because it shares logic with credit
card lookups and stuff like that.
If that is attacked, the whole system
could be compromised, yeah, absolutely.
So, I think that is where,
going back to the planning stage,
you really have to start
thinking about security concerns.
How do you make sure that, for example,
it's probably very common in monoliths
to have public routes and secured
routes in the sense of some are public,
some session stores and stuff like that.
Yeah, you got to be good at that,
you got to be able to be prepared that
this route is secured,
how do you secure routes?
Is it easy to secure routes?
What happens if it's not secured?
Or even further,
if it becomes compromised on a shell level
at that point then, yeah,
you're not in a good place at all.
So yeah, security definitely, I think
becomes a lot more challenging when
you have just a bunch of
things going on at once, and
you have to be considerate
of all those things.
So, again, that's where I would kind
of go back to his question even as well
if modularizing your code in a way
where you have a good structure around
securing off routes versus on off routes,
right?
You have a good structure around how
your configuration data is loaded or
how the process runs and things like that,
those definitely need to be considered,
yeah, absolutely.
Okay, so another use case,
applications with simple,
well-defined business processes.
So, monolithic structure can be beneficial
in scenarios where the business
processes are simple and unlikely to
require significant changes or additions.
A lot of what we're talking about here
is just, you wanna implement something.
You don't wanna spend a ton of time
on it in figuring out how a design
approach for it.
But you really wanna make sure that
it's at least solving the problem that
you want, and making sure that
it handles the scenario or
the business processes that you need.
You don't have to necessarily,
let's go distributed and
have inter service communication.
You could technically just
create another monolith and
put it next to the other monolith.
Now you have two monoliths, but
it's definitely a part of where you start
saying like, okay, this monolith
does this, this monolith does that.
And in that case,
you're not really distributed, right?
Because if one goes down,
then it's still in that case,
will probably be impacting
most of your systems.
But if you already know how to build
a monolith, or you wanna start decoupling
those things, you could effectively
make two monoliths if you wanted.
And that's a design, services and
monoliths are a bit different in
their scope and what they focus on.
But again, if you have two
different things that you are like,
a reason to have that separate operation,
you could at least try to do
that with multiple monoliths.
And then high performance,
where high performance is critical.
You will, nine times out of 10,
always deal with performance issues with
distribution, because there's more network
latency, there's more hops required,
and things like that.
Going back to the bot example that I
shared with you guys earlier, right?
Not only does a lambda you know firing
a bunch of time bad for cost but
what is another thing
that makes lambdas bad?
Does anyone know?
What is it number one common things
with lambdas that everyone deals with?
>> Speaker 3: Cold starts.
>> Erik: Cold starts, exactly, yeah, and
so what can be tough is that you wanna
be able to have a bot that responds under
a millisecond or 5, 10 milliseconds.
You're gonna be at
the mercy of cold starts,
you're gonna be at the mercy of
whatever architecture you're using.
And so again, in this scenario,
I could have a Twitch monolith and
a discord monolith, but
they both process and
have high throughput and performance for
the things that they want.
Or I could join them together and have
one big bot that processes all requests.
But high performance, you cannot argue
that a process just sitting there waiting
to return a request is
gonna be slower than like,
something that requires multiple jumps,
it's just gonna be faster.
It always will be, because you're not
talking about the performance of network,
you're just talking about
the performance of the CPU and
how fast it can process it, basically.
So again, if you're in like real-time
chat applications, stuff like that,
that can really be a benefit
to using a monolith for
the specific type of processing
that you're trying to do.
Because you're shifting network
latency to compute latency and
again, compute latency is
always gonna be faster.
>> Speaker 3: You're sharing
the same types between front-end and
backend worth the increased complexity.
>> Erik: Okay,
it sounds like somebody using TypeScript.
[LAUGH] So,
that really depends on how coupled
you want your frontend to your backend,
right?
Types become a logical change, which
means that if I wanna update a type for
both systems, I have to redeploy, right?
Does that mean that that's a bad thing?
No, because technically, again,
if you are using typescript,
which I'm not trying to
pool on typescript, but
if you are using typescript TypeScript,
that's a valuable purpose of using it.
You have the same language in
the frontend, the same language in
the backend, and it becomes really
easy to share those components.
However, think about the changes you
have to make, first off, you have to go
to the library potentially and
make your Enum change or whatever, right?
Then you have to go to the service,
update that library, right?
And make sure that that's got the latest
and then you've got to deploy that, so
now you've got two changes
that need deploying.
And then you have to go to
the front-end and change that and
then redeploy that as well.
And if anything happens with that,
then you got to go back and
restart the whole process all over again,
right?
In my mind, that is not decoupling, right?
In my mind, that is just
improving developer experience,
which I would even argue is not
really a great developer experience,
because you have to update two or
three things at least to be able to do it.
And on top of it, if you remove
the library from the scenario,
then which one is in control?
Is it the back-end that's control
of the types of the front-end and
the front-end follows it?
Or is it the front-end that controls
the back-end and the back-end follows it,
which gets deployed first?
Which gets deployed second?
What happens if they're different, right?
That becomes a really big challenge
when talking about consistency you
can get data consistency issues and
things like that.
So I think the goal that would
absolutely be a monolithic
approach versus a distributed
service approach.
Where, well, no, that becomes an end point
and only that endpoint changes whenever
you need instead of having to
update code in multiple places.